okay fantastic and web recording what
we're going to do today is look at IELTS
speaking and I'm going to talk to you
about how to get towards Islands nine
maybe not necessarily in a l-29 but
certainly how to boost your score
because there's a way to do it I took
this test and while I was taking the
test I had some ideas about how this is
possible it because it's quite a
deceptively simple task aren't speaking
basically three parts let's have a look
at what they are well the IELTS say that
part one is introduction and interview
part two is called long turn and part
three of discussion but I think it's
something different I think it's more
like this part one is small talk part
two you tell a story and part three you
discuss big ideas if you think about the
IELTS speaking section like this it
makes it a lot easier because this is
actually what you have to do you small
talk then you tell a story then with the
examiner you discuss some big ideas this
is actually what you do what does that
mean well let's have a look part one
small talk there's basically one secret
here and that is to elaborate okay to
extend your answers to not say yes or no
but to say yes because no because etc
you have to learn how to elaborate and
extend expand your answers let me give
you an example so when you walk in you
sit down with the examiner and she or he
looks at your passport and asks you your
name and your candidate number or
whatever it is very very simple
questions then the examiner will say
something like are you a student or do
you work and you must elaborate do not
just say I'm a student or yes I work you
need to tell a little story here you
need to elaborate use it you need
you need to say well I'm not a student
anymore because I recently graduated and
in fact I've just taken up a new job bla
bla bla bla bla
you need to shove off and that's what
elaborate means means to shove off your
language if the examiner asks you
whether you live you don't just say I
live in Melbourne no and you say well I
live in Melbourne now which is a really
interesting vibrant place to live
previously I lived in a very small town
so the contrast from the small town to
the city is quite interesting you
elaborate we extend your showing off
your language if things what will happen
next is quite interesting because it
will sort of go from a logical
progression of questions like are you a
student do you work where do you live
then the examiner will ask you something
like what's the most important place in
your hometown and the conversation
changes very quickly for example when I
did my IELTS speaking the examiner asked
me are you a student or do you work
where do you live and then she asked me
do you like going to the cinema I
thought what why would you ask me that
that doesn't make sense but it's part of
the ayah they sort of you transition
very quickly from some relevant
questions to what seems like irrelevant
questions but you need to think fast you
need to say the cinema well in fact not
really however my girlfriend likes going
to the cinema so I often go with her
personally I would prefer to stay home
and watch videos on Netflix whatever
that's how you answer that you need to
be flexible nimble because the questions
will change quite quickly and seemingly
they will be irrelevant okay then so
like for a question like what kinds of
jobs to people doing your hometown again
you elaborate you say well there's a
variety of industry in my hometown
including you know farming including
factory work etc and you expand and
elaborate any talk you answer the
question that you just elaborate right
part two I think is probably the hardest
part
it's called IELTS call it the long turn
this is where you have one minute to
prepare to speak for two minutes
now you can think about it as the long
turn or you can think about it as
telling a story because this is what I
think you have to do is just tell a
story and we need to think about it like
that it makes it easier but you need to
tell a good story you can't just tell a
boring story if you really want to
increase your points you need to tell a
good story so you need to embellish what
embellish means is basically you need to
lie now
think of this the IELTS is a test of
your language there's no reason when you
cannot lie you're not really in fact I
would say you're not actually lying
you're just telling a story you're just
showing off your language and if you
don't have a good story to tell well it
will decrease your scores how do you
tell a good story you need to embellish
embellish means that you make a story
more interesting by adding extra details
that are often untrue in other words two
embellishments to add untrue details
this is fine you should do this in fact
because if you don't you probably tell a
boring story and boring stories won't
get you the grades that you need there's
nothing in IELTS that say you're not
allowed to lie
it's not like it's embellishing the
difference you're telling a story and
you're just adding extra details to your
story to make it more interesting simple
as that that's how you increase your
score I should say that I actually got a
9 is 9 and speaking unsurprising I'm a
native speaker but still these these
tips work while you're telling the story
because you have to speak
two minutes you also need to digress
digress means that you leave the main
topic of conversation temporarily okay
what you're given for these this part of
for part two is a task card with three
pointing you have to speak for two
minutes on three or four points that's
really hard
if you don't digress so you need to
temporarily speak about other things but
still relevant things that's digression
I'm going to give you an example I'm
going to tell you what happened to me in
part two so in part two this is the task
card that I was given it says talk about
a time you were recently angry and I
thought oh my god this is very personal
you should say who or what made you
angry
where and when it was how angry you were
and explain whether or not it was
resolved and if so how
well I'm thinking to myself I don't want
to talk to this woman about this
personal experience of mine but then I
realized well I can just embellish I
don't need to tell the truth so I did it
I made up a story I used an event which
was relevant to this but I extended it I
embellished and I digressed and I told a
very interesting story that was not 100%
true that's how I did it because I to be
honest I didn't want to tell the IELTS
examiner about my personal feelings of
being angry it was weird
I think this is a weird topic time but
anyway if you use the embellished thing
you don't need to tell the truth you're
just using your language through it
you're demonstrating your language okay
so I told my story and I went through
each of the little dot points or the
tasks on the card and I had a beginning
I had a middle
and I had an end right now I want you to
try and I want you to use this task card
and I want you to tell a story okay and
I want you to embellish the story I want
you to tell innocent lies I also want
you to digress so when you talk about
where you got it from sorry let's let's
look at it first and I'll tell you how
to embellish and digress describe
something you own which is important to
you okay let's say let's say it to watch
you should say where you got it from
how long you have had it this should say
who you use it for how you use it but
maybe I'm sorry that's a mistake how you
use it and explain why it's important to
you so what you might want to do is say
today I'm going to be speaking about my
watch with you which is a very important
object to me now what I'm going to do
the story of my watch is very boring so
I'm going to just create a story and I'm
going to let my mind wander and I'm
going to use good language to tell this
story I got it from my grandmother who
was a very interesting woman and she was
an art teacher you can see I'm
digressing I'm talking about where I got
it from but I'm talking about my
grandmother she gave it to me on my 21st
birthday which was a very important date
for me because it symbolizes growth into
adulthood I'm digressing I'm talking
about this still but I'm digressing off
the topic slightly but I will come back
to the topic and that's critical how
long have you had it I've had to watch
now because I'm 32 for 11 years
and in fact I haven't yet replaced the
battery because I haven't needed to
because it's a wind-up watch I'm
digressing
in fact this does have a battery I'm
just using my language and telling a
story and whatever thoughts come into my
mind I speak and I speak them clearly
I speak them grammatically and it does
not matter about the content
whether the contents true or not that's
critical
so I'm embellishing I'm telling a story
and I'm digressing I'm going off topic
and then coming back to the topic
because what you'll find is it's very
difficult to speak for two minutes
without digressing for this task right
now I want you to do it okay I want you
to describe something you owe which is
important to you you should say where
you got it from
how long you've had it don't worry about
number three I'm sorry that's a mistake
let me draw a line through this and I
want you to explain why it's important
to you I'm going to give you just 20
seconds to think about this then I want
you to tell me a great story okay about
something you own 120 seconds to prepare
start now I want you to speak by the way
okay your time starts now
I want you to speak for one minute and
30 seconds I will stop you 3 2 1 start
[Music]
that's 30 seconds keep going
embellish digress
it's one minute so I want you to speak
for 30 more seconds embellish digress
five-four-three-two-one usually you
speak for about one minute 32 minutes
the examiner will stop you don't feel
bad if the examiner stops you it doesn't
mean you're doing something wrong the
examiner just wants to move on okay
good I hope that worked I hope that
worked you need to imagine that you're
just telling a story to a good friend
okay you want to make this story as
interesting as possible and let's just
check the chat here okay fine let's move
on whoops let me just clear my picture
here okay
you will then move on to part three
where you need to discuss big ideas okay
this is a discussion between you and the
examiner and what you want to do is
discuss big ideas you don't want to
sound simple here you want to sound
philosophical you want to discuss
abstract ideas and I'll tell you why so
here you need to elaborate as you did in
part one okay you need to extend your
sentences not yes/no answers extend
elaborate you also can embellish that's
fine you can talk about things that are
not 100 percent true it doesn't matter
it's just a language test but you need
to be thoughtful if you're not answering
with thoughtful interesting ideas your
score will reduce but what does that
mean
whoops sorry what does that mean to have
thoughtful ideas and how does that
affect language let me explain I'll tell
you about that okay here's the pyramid
here's an IELTS nine right at the top of
the pyramid here's an eye on six in the
middle of the pyramid and down here is
IELTS four three two one etc what's the
difference well in IELTS nine speaker
has abstract ideas ideas that are
interesting and thoughtful in
philosophical okay and ions four has
basic idea
is that are not interesting but a
concrete that a superficial not that
interesting now what's the relationship
between ideas and language well to have
abstract ideas you need to use abstract
language okay and to have basic ideas
well you only need basic language and
what you need to achieve in a l-29 is
abstract language less common language
interesting language abstract ideas
equal abstract language okay you need to
have the idea first and the language
will come and then describe that idea to
the examiner this is our language works
in your brain the idea always comes
first then the language appears to
describe the idea
now what's abstract language well
abstract language means that the the
words that you use a less common and
more precise less common more precise
words and the grammar you use is more
varied different types of grammar
different sentence types but it's 100%
accurate so words and grammar less
comment more precise words more varied
with accurate grammar equal abstract
language abstract language will lead you
to an IELTS nine basic language will
lead you to it an IELTS four five or six
max okay let me tell you what happened
to me so this was my task card and the
discussion leads on from the task card
okay the questions that the examiner
asked me were how can you control anger
and what do you think about the
mind-body relationship now I understood
that I need to elaborate embellish and
be thoughtful okay so when she asked me
how can you control anger I did not say
and I don't know you could breathe
deeply no I didn't say that I talked to
her and I discussed some interesting
ideas I said well there are many
different theories about anger anger
control which includes sort of cognitive
behavioral therapy or deep breathing or
meditation etc but I believe that being
angry is perfectly natural in fact I
think being angry actually feels good I
talked to I talked about some
interesting ideas I said the expression
of anger is fine as long as you're not
hurting other people for example when I
play sport i express my anger but only
in the rules of the game so nobody gets
hurt that I actually I I'm struggling
for the word I express that aggression
in the rules of the game so I talk to
her about this okay ie I was thoughtful
I was kind of philosophical I had
interesting ideas and then she asked me
what do you think about the mind-body
relationship and I said to her no doubt
I think there is a relationship between
the mind and the body in fact when
you're angry you can feel it in your
physical body it's not just mental
phenomena the body including the organs
and the adrenal glands and I talked to
her about biology and I talked to her
about stuff like this so you first of
all you need to have a knowledge
background so you can have these ideas
but you probably have that knowledge
background in your first language you
need to be able to express those ideas
in English okay I mean this is that's
what it comes down to you need to be
able to have the ideas then you need to
be able to express them anyway I want
you to try now I want you back on this
describe something you own which is
important to you here are some
discussion questions related to this and
I'm going to give you some time and I
want you to give me some thoughtful
answers
where you elaborate you embellish and
your philosophical you have interesting
ideas on them don't give me boring ideas
I want interesting thoughtful ideas
question one I'm going to give you 20
seconds to speak about question 1 okay
question 1 is what kind of things
give status to people in your country
your time starts now
okaythat's
I gave you 30 seconds maybe I'll give
you 30 seconds um okay let me just check
the chat here I'm getting a few our son
says is it okay to ask for clarification
from the examiner if you don't
understand the question yes that's fine
you can talk to the examiner context
sorry examiner what does a what do you
mean by status and the examiner will say
well status means your rank in society
so yes you can ask the examiner
absolutely any one question - I'm going
to give you 30 seconds I want you to
give me a very thoughtful interesting
answer where you embellish and you die
out and you a thoughtful okay question
to have things changed in your country
since your parents time your time starts
now
five four three two one stop do you
think advertising influences what people
buy your time startsnow
five four three two one and stop how did
that go did that help you I hope it did
I hope it did alright let's just quickly
talk about what the examiners Oh
oh good Eric Deb said it was a very
short time thirty seconds was not long
enough good Erin damn remember that part
three is a discussion so you don't want
to speak for too long don't go on and on
and on and on I want you to speak
meaningfully for as long as you can and
then stop because the examiner will ask
you another question
so part two you need to speak for two
for two minutes the part three you're
having a discussion
however the examiner will ask new
questions not you ask the examiner
questions cool everyone else said that
that was helpful so that's excellent
right so just to recap before I talk
about the criteria there are three parts
to IELTS speaking and I believe that
they are small talk where you need to
elaborate that's it just elaborate then
you tell a story and you need to
embellish your story adding extra
details that may not be true and you
need to digress you need to go off-topic
then
come back to the topic okay that's part
two part three is the discussion and you
need to be thoughtful you need to give
interesting philosophical abstract
answers because your thoughts come first
and your language should follow you need
to have high interesting thoughts okay
that's how you get anions nine or close
to an IELTS nine let's have a look at
the criteria now this is what the
examiner is listening for while you're
speaking for things first fluency and
coherence
I'll explain these in a second
vocabulary grammar and pronunciation
fluency in coherence means you speak
smoothly
it means you speak at a moderate pace
not too quickly not too slowly you don't
um you don't read you don't you don't
read you don't read you don't restart
sentences you start a set it and you
finish that sentence you really has a
hazard hazard you really hesitate and if
you do it's only because you're looking
for an idea not for a word of it or
grammar okay it's okay to hesitate if
you're thinking because you're trying to
find that big idea that's okay
if you hesitate because you are trying
to find a particular word or grammar
that means you're going to get into
trouble fluency and coherence your
sentences are well formed from beginning
to end you structure your speech
appropriately from beginning to end
remember you're telling the story or
stories have a beginning middle and an
end
you can digress but you come back to
that story you develop the topics fully
and appropriately that's what the story
is about second thing the examiners
listen for is your vocabulary
you need to be flexible that means that
you can explain your ideas using the
words using appropriate words your
vocabulary is precise some words are
more precise than others
you need to be able to choose and use
words that are precise and here you use
less common words when do you use less
common words when you're speaking about
something basic or something abstract
the answer is abstract when you're
discussing big interesting philosophical
ideas you naturally use less common
words this means
idiomatic language naturally
inaccurately means your phrases the way
you speak is not translated directly
from your first language it's in fact
sounds natural in English grammar you
use a variety of grammar easily and
appropriately so you're not hesitating
thinking how to put that idea into a
sentence comes to you easily you speak
accurately you are allowed to make the
occasional mistake or slip that's okay
even native English speakers sometimes
make mistakes
pronunciation what does this mean this
means you are clear and accurate when
you speak the words when you say the
words what it really means though is
that it's effortless to understand you
that if I'm listening to you I can
understand you without effort okay if I
have to struggle to understand you if
I'm sort of thinking what I don't quite
get that that's a problem
your pronunciation should be effortless
okay
cool alright we'll go to questions in a
second but what I first want to talk to
you about is how to prepare for IELTS
this is how you get to IELTS success
there are 1 2 3 4 5 6 steps along the
way the first thing you need to do well
this is what we do in a 2 language comm
when you register or upgrade your
account you get a personalized study
plan consultation where a teacher like
me will sit with you talk to you about
your previous test scores talk to you
about your language weaknesses and I'll
write you a document that will
that will set the pathway for you that
will get you going keep you motivated
and get you to success then it's up to
you for the next three steps because you
need to practice your grammar vocabulary
and pronunciation they are the building
blocks of the language we have hundreds
and hundreds of lessons of into language
comm to help you then you come across
and you do the methods tips and strategy
classes like this one here we have live
daily classes then you must practice and
we have hundreds and hundreds of
questions on eating language calm that
exactly the same or replicate the IELTS
questions so that you apply your method
your understanding of the methods to
practice questions then you come back
and you make the teacher again because
you've done a lot of skill building here
and practice questions and you'll meet
the teacher for speaking or writing or
reading or listening and the teacher
will tell you give you feedback expert
feedback what you're doing right what
you're doing wrong then we have live
mock tests where you can actually sit
under test conditions and practice doing
an exam then you will be ready for test
day okay here I have a success story
from one of the students on eto language
comm in fact we have dozens and dozens
of these if you read our Facebook page
you will see that we are now helping
almost getting up to hundreds and
hundreds of people helping them to pass
their exams ok cool let's go to
questions if you have any questions
please type them into the chat let's
have a look ok irva says if we use
simple sentences in part 2 will the
examiner cut my mark yes when you're
telling the story you you don't need to
use complex sentences but you should use
a variety of different sentences you
should use interesting vocabulary and
you should use different types of
grammar above all your stories should be
interesting
your story will be interesting if you
use good vocabulary and grammar so aim
for interesting and let the language
follow ok arendelle is worried about the
the time first for part 2 the time is
you just just tell the story that's fine
and for part 3 in the discussion just be
thoughtful have interesting thoughts
interesting discussions you have to
remember that the IELTS examiner's sits
there every day and listens to the same
thing every day so if you have
interesting thoughts you will get a
higher grade because your language will
be more interesting novena has asked
what should I do so that I don't freeze
in the cue card in part 2 interestingly
Naveen I froze in part 2 when the
examiner asked me about my personal
experience of anger I froze and that's
when I realized that it doesn't matter
you just tell a story and then that
story you can embellish you don't need
to tell the truth because it's not about
truth it's about using language so don't
worry about freezing because you don't
have to tell the truth you just need to
speak and tell a great story cool all
right I think we'll leave it there thank
you very much for coming along tomorrow
you will see Jamal for listening so
sorry reading tomorrow so make sure you
tune in
please if you have any friends doing
IELTS feel free to share eating language
calm with them get them to come up come
across to the webinars and yes all group
practice upgrade we will help you out
cool thank you very much see you